More comprehensive javadoc conventions (#2051)
FabricMC/yarn: CONVENTIONS.md

## Javadocs

Write sentences for class, method and fields javadocs, starting with an uppercase and ending with a period. Start method docs with verbs, like `Gets` or `Called`. Use HTML tags such as `<p>` if the docs have several paragraphs, as line wraps are converted to spaces in the generated documentation. Feel free to start a new line whenever you feel the current line is too long.

> Write quick descriptions for parameter javadocs as well as `@return` tags, with no uppercase or period. Add parameter docs to the parameter itself instead of adding `@param` tags to its owner method, except for type parameters (like `<T>` in `public class Lazy<T>`) whose descriptions can only go to `@param` tags of the classes or methods that declare them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter and `@return` documentation should use quick descriptions without initial capitalization or punctuation, such as 'whether the block placement was successful'.

Avoid using the `@param` tag for documentation of owner methods, except for type parameters (such as `<T>` in `public class Lazy<T>`) whose descriptions can only be placed in `@param` tags of the classes or methods that declare them.
```

> Javadoc will take the first sentence, ended by the first `.`, as a brief description of the member you are documenting; you can use `{@summary }` inline tag to enclose another sentence to serve as the description, such as when you have `.` within sentences like `{@summary Returns the client's player, i.e. the controlled player.}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Javadoc will take the first sentence, ended by the first `.`, as a brief description of the member you are documenting. If you need to enclose another sentence to serve as a description, such as when you have multiple periods within a sentence, enclose the summary within the `{@summary }` inline tag. An example sentence with multiple periods enclosed within a summary tag would be `{@summary Returns the client's player, i.e. the controlled player.}`.
```

### Tooling

> Fabric's official hosted javadocs are generated with [Java 11's standard doclet](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/doc-comment-spec.html) and can use any feature it supports, though you can personally build the documentation with newer Java. See ["checking javadoc"](#checking-javadoc) for how to build the documentation locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official hosted Javadocs are generated using [the standard Java 11 doclet](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/doc-comment-spec.html) and can use any feature it supports, though you can personally build the documentation with a newer Java version. See [the 'Checking Javadoc' section](#checking-javadoc) for how to build the documentation locally.
```

There should probably also be another section detailing the official hosted Javadocs.

Author: Hmm, is there any rule that in formal English you are not supposed to use `a thing's`? I only know that formal English prefers `he is` than `he's` etc, and I understand the rest of the changes.

Reviewer 2: In theory you can refer to the JVM as a noun, in practice it is allowed. Really the context of the sentence would dictate which form is more important.

Reviewer 3: `He's` is a contraction of `he` and `is`, while `thing's` just shows possession. It is not short for `thing is`, it shows that something belongs to `thing`.

Author: Updated and uses "JVM 11" as a noun, like "apple" in "apple tree". Please add follow up review on the latest changes as this is now obsolete.

### Custom tags

> A few additional block tags are supported:

Reviewer: Add an additional newline between the paragraph and list:

```suggestion
A few additional block tags are supported:

```

 - `@apiNote`: API Notes. A few comments for users of the documented member.
 - `@implSpec`: Implementation Specification. Tells how this method should be implemented.
 - `@implNote`: Implementation Notes. A few comments on the implementation.

Feel free to use these tags and write under these sections.

> ### Linking to other memebers

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Linking to other members
```

Use `@link`, `@linkplain` and `@see` tags to refer to other parts of the code.

> When linking to another class, you can use the simple name of a class if it's from `java.lang` package or from the same package, or it appears in the signature of the class or its members (methods or fields).

Reviewer: This should be formatted as a list to improve clarity:

```suggestion
You can use the simple name of a class in the following scenarios:

- If it is from the `java.lang` package
- If it is from the same package as the currently documented class
- If it is part of the signature of the class or its methods (methods and fields)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Use Yarn mappings when referencing Minecraft members, such as `net.minecraft.server.world.ThreadedAnvilChunkStorage` rather than `net.minecraft.class_3898`.

```

> 

Reviewer: Clarify the meaning of a simple name:

```suggestion

If it does not fulfill one of these scenarios, use the full name, such as `com.google.common.collect.Lists` rather than simply `Lists`.

```

Author: I'd prefer to link to https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Class.html#getSimpleName()

Author: ```suggestion

If it does not fulfill one of these scenarios, use the full name, such as `com.google.common.collect.Lists` rather than simply `Lists`.

Use Yarn mappings when referencing Minecraft members, such as `net.minecraft.server.world.ThreadedAnvilChunkStorage` rather than `net.minecraft.class_3898`.

```
GitHub has a merge conflict

<details>
<summary>
An example
</summary>

> Assume this is the decompiled content in enigma, which does not show imports:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assume this is the decompiled content in Enigma, which does not show imports:

```

```java
/**
 * Assume this class is from the {@code net.example.stuff} package.
 *
 * <p>You can link to {@link Optional} as it's part of the class signature (type parameter bound).
 *
 * <p>You must fully qualify {@link net.example.stuff.basic.BasicStuffUser} when linking as it is not in
 * any signature and is from a different package.
 */
public class Stuff<T extends Optional<?>> {
  /**
   * You can link to {@link Listener} with the simple name as it's part of a field's signature.
   */
  protected Listener listener;

  /**
   * You can link to {@link List} with the simple name as it's part of a method's signature.
   *
   * <p>You must fully qualify {@link net.example.util.UtilityClass} when linking because it is not part
   * of any signature (even though it is used in code) and is from a different package.
   */
  public Stuff(List<Integer> opt) {
    UtilityClass.callMethod(opt);
  }
}
```
</details>

> ### Checking javadoc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Checking Javadoc

```

> After you wrote your javadoc, you should check its validity, such as looking at the `Run ./gradlew build javadocJar checkMappings mapNamedJar --stacktrace` section of your GitHub pull request build result (for any jdk). Look at the `Task :javadoc` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After writing a Javadoc, you should check its validity. This can easily be done from GitHub using the 'Checks' section. For any JDK version, the section titled `Run ./gradlew build javadocJar checkMappings mapNamedJar --stacktrace` will contain output related to Javadoc generation in the `Task :javadoc` section.
```

> You can also run `./gradlew javadoc` (Linux, macOS) or `gradlew javadoc` (Windows) locally and check its messages, but it will take a while given the sheer size of the Minecraft codebase to generate documentations for. After that, you can enter `build/docs/javadoc` directory to obtain the generated javadoc and check if the rendered content is what you desire.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check Javadoc validity locally using the `./gradlew javadoc` (Linux, macOS) or `gradlew javadoc` (Windows) commands; this will take a while given the sheer size of the Minecraft codebase. After that, you can enter the `build/docs/javadoc` directory to obtain the generated Javadoc and ensure it renders correctly.
```

> If you are unsure if your javadoc is correct stylistically, we recommend you to run the `javadoc` task and check its output, as described in the previous paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unsure if your Javadoc is correct stylistically, we recommend you to run the `javadoc` task and check its output, as described in the previous paragraph.
```

## Javadocs

> Write sentences for class, method and fields javadocs, starting with an uppercase and ending with a period. Start method docs with verbs, like `Gets` or `Called`. Use HTML tags such as `<p>` if the docs have several paragraphs, as line wraps are converted to spaces in the generated documentation. Feel free to start a new line whenever you feel the current line is too long.

Reviewer 5: I'd give a concrete max length recommendation like 120 chars for uniformity

Author: Hmm, this is hard to do because indents may differ in different decompilers

Reviewer: I would say to start a new line for sentences rather than a hard character limit. Mappings don't need the same kind of readability as normal code, so they should at worst not have any wrapping at all. The middle ground is to have concise sentences and to wrap based on that instead.

Author: Hmm, currently my rule is wrap when the javadoc window runs out. Maybe we should specify that in the future (limit the field width in the javadoc window in enigma)

Reviewer: Line widths preferably would be invisible to Enigma users, but that would require changes in Enigma.

> Parameter and `@return` documentation should use quick descriptions without initial capitalization or punctuation, such as `whether the block placement was successful`.

Reviewer 5: IMO the example is not optimal by being a little vague on the boolean mapping, a better one would be `true if placement was successful[, false otherwise]`. See e.g. https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Map.html#containsKey(java.lang.Object)

> Avoid using the `@param` tag for documentation of owner methods. Add parameter docs to the parameter itself instead of adding `@param` tags to its owner method. However, you can use the tag for type parameters (such as `<T>` in `public class Lazy<T>`), which cannot be documented separately.

Reviewer 5: Very unclear what an "owner method" is supposed to be/mean. This uncertainty remains across the remainder of the paragraph. Yarn needs to put the docs on the parameters because that's what we migrate across versions and name individually (fixed entry in member-level docs would become disassociated if param gets renamed). Starting with the reason and mentioning the update + association process should make this easier to grasp.

Author: Just curious, does matcher match type parameters across versions?

Reviewer 5: IIRC I am only comparing the generic type (class) to give `SomeAClass<SomeType>` a higher score against `SomeBClass<SomeType>` vs `SomeBClass<SomeOtherType>`

> Avoid using the `@param` tag for documentation of owner methods. Add parameter docs to the parameter itself instead of adding `@param` tags to its owner method. However, you can use the tag for type parameters (such as `<T>` in `public class Lazy<T>`), who don't have mapping entries for their documentations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoid using the `@param` tag for documentation of owner methods. Add parameter docs to the parameter itself instead of adding `@param` tags to its owner method. However, you can use the tag for type parameters (such as `<T>` in `public class Lazy<T>`), which do not support separate documentation.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Avoid using the `@param` tag for documentation of owner methods. Add parameter docs to the parameter itself instead of adding `@param` tags to its owner method. However, you can use the tag for type parameters (such as `<T>` in `public class Lazy<T>`), which cannot be documented separately.
```
Imo this one better

> Javadoc will take the first sentence, ended by the first `.`, as a brief description of the member you are documenting. If you need to enclose another sentence to serve as a description, such as when you have multiple periods within a sentence, enclose the summary within the `{@summary }` inline tag. An example sentence with multiple periods enclosed within a summary tag would be `{@summary Returns the client's player, i.e. the controlled player.}`.

Reviewer 5: IMO `@summary` should be discouraged in favor of selecting different wording to fix the same issue.

### Tooling

> Fabric-hosted Javadocs are generated using [JDK 11 Standard Doclet](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/doc-comment-spec.html) and can use any feature it supports, though you can personally build the documentation with a newer Java version. See [the 'Checking Javadoc' section](#checking-javadoc) for how to build the documentation locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fabric-hosted Javadocs are generated using [the JDK 11 Standard Doclet](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/specs/doc-comment-spec.html) and can use any feature it supports, though you can personally build the documentation with a newer Java version. See [the 'Checking Javadoc' section](#checking-javadoc) for how to build the documentation locally.
```

Author: Nah, you don't always call an apple tree "the apple tree"

### Custom tags

A few additional block tags are supported:

>  - `@apiNote`: API Notes. A few comments for users of the documented member.

Reviewer 5: documented API instead of member IMO

>  - `@implSpec`: Implementation Specification. Tells how this method should be implemented.

Reviewer 5: implSpec is rather unsuitable for yarn specifically (we, especially yarn, don't really make the rules), I'd discourage or ignore it

Author: Hmm, can implSpec be a guideline for overriders, or is that part of api specification?

 - `@implNote`: Implementation Notes. A few comments on the implementation.

Feel free to use these tags and write under these sections.

### Linking to other members

Use `@link`, `@linkplain` and `@see` tags to refer to other parts of the code.

You can use the simple name of a class in the following scenarios:

- If it is from the `java.lang` package
- If it is from the same package as the currently documented class

> - If it is part of the signature of the class or its members (methods and fields)

Reviewer 5: Somewhat unclear phrasing around "the signature", which in itself is a rather ambiguous or unfamiliar term. The real reasoning is built around re-using existing imports, which we don't necessarily have guaranteed. It should however be possible to word everything around "imports assumed to exist"

> If it does not fulfill one of these scenarios, use the [full binary name](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/ClassLoader.html#binary-name), such as `com.google.common.collect.Lists` rather than simply `Lists`. Unlike class naming in enigma, do not use `/` to separate packages; use `.` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it does not fulfill one of these scenarios, use the [full binary name](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/ClassLoader.html#binary-name), such as `com.google.common.collect.Lists` rather than simply `Lists`. The separator is `.`, unlike class naming in Enigma, which uses `/`.
```

Author: Nah, my emphasis is on not using `/`.

If it does not fulfill one of these scenarios, use the [full binary name](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/ClassLoader.html#binary-name), such as `com.google.common.collect.Lists` rather than simply `Lists`. Unlike class naming in enigma, do not use `/` to separate packages; use `.` instead.

Use Yarn mappings when referencing Minecraft members, such as `net.minecraft.server.world.ThreadedAnvilChunkStorage` rather than `net.minecraft.class_3898`. The Javadoc task will warn if some links no longer work after a rename.

<details>
<summary>
An example
</summary>

Assume this is the decompiled content in Enigma, which does not show imports:

```java
/**
 * Assume this class is from the {@code net.example.stuff} package.
 *
 * <p>You can link to {@link Optional} as it's part of the class signature (type parameter bound).
 *
 * <p>You must fully qualify {@link net.example.stuff.basic.BasicStuffUser} when linking as it is not in
 * any signature and is from a different package.
 */

> public class Stuff<T extends Optional<?>> {
>   /**
>    * You can link to {@link Listener} with the simple name as it's part of a field's signature.
>    */
>   protected Listener listener;
> 
>   /**
>    * You can link to {@link List} with the simple name as it's part of a method's signature.
>    *
>    * <p>You must fully qualify {@link net.example.util.UtilityClass} when linking because it is not part
>    * of any signature (even though it is used in code) and is from a different package.
>    */
>   public Stuff(List<Integer> opt) {
>     UtilityClass.callMethod(opt);
>   }
> }

Reviewer: Use tabs for indentation:

```suggestion
public class Stuff<T extends Optional<?>> {
	/**
	 * You can link to {@link Listener} with the simple name as it's part of a field's signature.
	 */
	protected Listener listener;

	/**
	 * You can link to {@link List} with the simple name as it's part of a method's signature.
	 *
	 * <p>You must fully qualify {@link net.example.util.UtilityClass} when linking because it is not part
	 * of any signature (even though it is used in code) and is from a different package.
	 */
	public Stuff(List<Integer> opt) {
		UtilityClass.callMethod(opt);
	}
}
```

Author: Looks good

## Javadocs

Write sentences for class, method and fields javadocs, starting with an uppercase and ending with a period. Start method docs with verbs, like `Gets` or `Called`. Use HTML tags such as `<p>` if the docs have several paragraphs, as line wraps are converted to spaces in the generated documentation. Feel free to start a new line whenever you feel the current line is too long.

Parameter and `@return` documentation should use quick descriptions without initial capitalization or punctuation, such as `{@code true} if the block placement was successful, {@code false} otherwise`. `{@return}` used in first sentence can duplicate enclosed text to the return description.

Use `{@index}` to allow enclosed text to be indexed by the Javadoc search.

Avoid using the `@param` tag for documentation of methods. Add parameter documentations to the parameter itself instead of adding `@param` tags to its owner method, so Matcher can update them properly across Minecraft updates. However, you can use the tag for type parameters (such as `<T>` in `public class Lazy<T>`), which cannot be documented separately.

> Javadoc will take the first sentence, ended by the first `.`, as a brief description of the member you are documenting. Note that `.` from abbrieviations, such as `i.e.`, count.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Javadoc will take the first sentence, ended by the first `.`, as a brief description of the member you are documenting. Note that `.` from abbreviations, such as `i.e.`, count.
```

Author: I am the typo king yes :laughing:
